---
title: "LWCW (LessWrong Community Weekend) 2022, Berlin"
date: 2022-09-01T07:13:04+02:00
draft: true
---

"Who wants to brag about something they did last week?"

That was the question posed to the entire circle of people sitting in a park in
the center of Berlin. And then one by one people started bragging and everyone
else cheered them on.

<!--more-->

Stricly speaking this happened after the LessWrong Community Weekend during the
_Rationality Dojo_ that the Berlin Community organized, but it is an
illustrative example of the unusual nature of this event.

If you were to look at the table of talks you would see: dancing, meditation,
how to make fire in the wilderness, kissing workshop, a-capella singing, early
morning running, dealing with depression and anxiety, modular origami workshop,
Japanese Mahjong, piano, yoga, dark arts intro to rhetorics, ...

Hardly what one commonly thinks of as _rationality_, is it? Then you also had
multiple talks and workshops about AI (Artificial Intelligence) safety, meetup
organization and exercises such as "Circling", "Hamming circles" or "Gendlin's
Focusing".

What is more, all of it was organized as an _unconference_, meaning that anyone
could add a new event to the schedule at any time or just change their mind and
move it to a different slot.

Around 150 people from all over the world, though mostly Europe, showed up and
the entire vibe was simply fantastic, inspiring, beautiful and touching. So
many fascinating conversations in the hallways, during lunch or on the way to
one of the evening swims in the lake Wannsee.

Not a single moment of boredom could be another way of putting it. Everyone was
open and welcoming, bringing their own incredible experiences and knowledge to
the table, keeping the minds and hearts of the rest engaged.

Participants were staying in the same hostel, almost entirely booked for us, right
next to the lake, with plenty of food, Mate tea, snacks and boardgames.

If you are in or around Freiburg come to the meetups in the next months to
learn much more about the exercises and experiences of this awesome weekend!

Last but not least, just in case you are wondering about COVID protocol:
Everyone was required to test themselves with the highest quality available
antigen test, provided by the organizers, upon arrival and then every morning
before leaving their room. One of many ways in which the wonderful organizers
worked tirelessly to make the event fantastic for everyone.

Thank you, from the bottom of my heart to every single attendee and organizer!
See you next time!
